svgdigitizer documentation & implementation of myst_nb (#125)
echemdb/svgdigitizer: doc/index.md

Welcome to svgdigitizer's documentation!
========================================

<!--
```{todo}
* what is svgdigitizer and what is our aim.
* then refer to installation, cli, api and cv.
```
-->

> Svgdigitizer allows recovering data from a curve, plotted in a 2D coordinate 
> system with defined axes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Svgdigitizer allows recovering data from a curve, plotted in a 2D coordinate 
system.
```

Such plots are often found in scientific publications, where

> in many cases, especially for old pulications, the underlying data 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in many cases, especially for old pulications, the source data 
```

> Such plots are often found in scientific publications, where
> in many cases, especially for old pulications, the underlying data 
> is not accessible anymore. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such plots are often found in scientific publications, where
in many cases, especially for old puplications, the underlying data 
is not accessible anymore. 
```

> In some cases, the axis of the plot can be a bit skewed, caused from scanning 
> printed documents. An extreme case for such a plot is depicted in the following figure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the axes of the plot can be skewed, e.g., when scanning 
printed documents. An extreme case for such a plot is depicted in the following figure.
```

![files/images/example_plot_p0.png](files/images/example_plot_p0.png) 

In order to recover the underlying data, first the plot is imported in a 
vector graphics program, such as [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/).

> The curve is traced with *regular bezier path* and two points are marked 
> with a group of textlabel and line on each axis to define the coordinate system.
> The curve should be assigned a text label. Additonal labels describing the data 
> can be provided anywhere in the SVG file. The resulting file looks as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The curve is traced with *regular bezier paths* and two points and text labels
are created and grouped for each axis to define the coordinate system.
The curve should be assigned a text label. Additional labels describing the data 
can be provided anywhere in the SVG file. The resulting file looks as follows:
```

![files/images/example_plot_p0_demo.png](files/images/example_plot_p0_demo.png) 

## [Command line interface](cli.md)

> This file can be digitized from the [command line interface](cli.md), which creates a CVS file of the x and y data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This SVG can be digitized from the [command line interface](cli.md), which creates a CVS file of the x and y data. 
```

The resolution can be specified by `--sampling-interval`.

```sh

> svgdigitizer digitize example_plot_p0_demo.svg --sampling-interval 0.01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
svgdigitizer digitize example_plot_p0_demo.svg --sampling-interval 0.01 --mark-aligned
```

Does not work yet because no such flag is exposed in the CLI.

```

## [API](api.md)

> With the [API](api.md), the file can also be used to create an actual [SVGplot class](api/svgplot.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Python [API](api.md), the SVG can also be used to create an [SVGPlot instance](api/svgplot.md).
```

`SVGPlot` is the class. When you say `SVGPlot()` that object is called an instance of `SVGPlot`.

```python
>>> from svgdigitizer.svg import SVG
>>> from svgdigitizer.svgplot import SVGPlot

> >>> plot = SVGPlot(SVG(open('./svgdigitizer/doc/files/others/example_plot_p0_demo.svg', 'r')), sampling_interval=0.01)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> plot = SVGPlot(SVG(open('./svgdigitizer/doc/files/others/example_plot_p0_demo.svg', 'r')), sampling_interval=0.01, algorithm='mark-aligned')
```

The example plot below looks wrong to me at the moment. The graph is tilted upwards a bit as it has been in the original drawing. But it should be flat because the x-axis is not horizontal.

Author: fixed the plot. weird enough 'r' worked

```

> Now one can query things such as the axis labels or any other text label in the SVG file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now axis labels or any other text label in the SVG file can be queried.
```

I guess you're using some sort of passive voice everywhere else, so maybe also here.

```python
>>> plot.axis_labels
{'x': 'V', 'y': 'm / s'}

>>> plot.svg.get_texts()
[<text>curve: blue</text>,
 <text>x2: 80 V</text>,
 <text>x1: 10 V</text>,
 <text>y1: 10 m / s</text>,
 <text>y2: 60 m / s</text>,
 <text>comment: random data</text>,
 <text>operator: Mr. X</text>]
```

> The data is stored in a [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) dataframe:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data can be extracted as a [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) dataframe:
```

```python
>>> plot.df
	        x	        y
0	11.660079	13.681307
1	11.670079	13.681548
2	11.680079	13.681934
3	11.690079	13.682416
4	11.700079	13.682976
...	      ...	      ...
```

A plot can be created via
```python
>>> plot.plot()
```
![files/images/example_plot_p0_demo_digitized.png](files/images/example_plot_p0_demo_digitized.png) 

Installation
============

The package is hosted on [PiPY](https://pypi.org/project/svgdigitizer/) and can be installed via

```sh
pip install svgdigitizer
```

> Read the [installation instructions](installation.md) on further details if you want to contribute to the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please consult [our documentation](installation.md) for detailed installation instructions.
```

The other ways to install are not only for contributors I think. They are, e.g., also important to people who want to package this for (Linux) distributions.

Further information
===================

The svgdigitizer can be enhanced with other modules for specific datasets.

> Currently the following datasets are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the following datasets are supported:
```

I learned that in school. Maybe it's not necessary, I don't know.

Author: My proofing tools and online tools do not want a comma here.

> * [cyclic voltammograms](api/cv.md) (I vs. E - current vs. potential curves or j vs. E - current density vs. potential curves) commonly found in electrochemistry. For further details and requirements refer to the specific instructions of the [cv module](api/cv.md) itself or the detailed description on how to [digitize cyclic voltamograms](workflow.md) for the [echemdb](https://echemdb.github.io/website/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [cyclic voltammograms](api/cv.md) (*I* vs. *E* — current vs. potential curves or *j* vs. *E* — current density vs. potential curves) commonly found in electrochemistry. For further details and requirements refer to the specific instructions of the [cv module](api/cv.md) itself or the detailed description on how to [digitize cyclic voltammograms](workflow.md) for the [echemdb](https://echemdb.github.io/website/).
```

You did it again :P

Author: it's my pleasure. :)

> We would be delighted if you would [cite](https://zenodo.org/record/5881475) our project when you use the svgdigitizer in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have used this project in the preparation of a publication, please cite it as described [on our zenodo page](https://zenodo.org/record/5881475).
```

We thought about that one a bit over at flatsurf. So maybe we want to use the same text here? (Also, I learned in school that "if would" is wrong most of the time but I am always unsure about that one.)

---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    formats: ipynb,md
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.13.6
  kernelspec:
    display_name: Python 3 (ipykernel)
    language: python
    name: python3
---

<!-- #raw -->
<!-- 
The original figure in this documentation were produced with Xournal++ (./files/others/example_plot.xopp). The content of the XOPP was exported as pdf (./files/others/example_plot.pdf). With the paginate function of svgdigitizer the page was exported as PNG and SVG.
* (./files/others/example_plot.png)
* (./files/others/example_plot.svg)

The latter was renamed and to ./files/others/example_plot_demo.svg and the curve was digitized. The digitized plot was exported as ./files/others/example_plot_demo.png
-->
<!-- #endraw -->

> 

Author: @saraedum I included the workflow on how the documentation has been built as a comment in the file. Then all unused files are at least mentioned somewhere. I think this is a rather transparent approach.

Some of these files will presumably be recycled in the other docu.

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.13.6
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3 (ipykernel)
  language: python
  name: python3
---

```{raw-cell}
<!-- 
The original figure in this documentation were produced with Xournal++ (./files/others/example_plot.xopp). The content of the XOPP was exported as pdf (./files/others/example_plot.pdf). With the paginate function of svgdigitizer the page was exported as PNG and SVG.
* (./files/others/example_plot.png)
* (./files/others/example_plot.svg)

The latter was renamed and to ./files/others/example_plot_demo.svg and the curve was digitized. The digitized plot was exported as ./files/others/example_plot_demo.png
-->
```

Welcome to svgdigitizer's documentation!
========================================

The `svgdigitizer` allows recovering data from a curve in a figure, 
plotted in a 2D coordinate system.
Such plots are often found in scientific publications, where

> in many cases, especially for old puplications, the underlying data 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in many cases, especially for old puplications, the source data 
```

is not accessible anymore. 
In some cases, the axes of the plot can be skewed, e.g., in scanned
documents. An extreme case for such a plot is depicted in the following figure.

![files/images/example_plot_p0.png](files/images/example_plot_p0.png) 

> In order to recover the underlying data, first the plot is imported in a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to recover the source data, first the plot is imported in a 
```

vector graphics program, such as [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/).
The curve is traced with *regular bezier paths* and two points and text labels
are created and grouped for each axis to define the coordinate system.
The curve should be assigned a text label. Additional labels describing the data 
can be provided anywhere in the SVG file. The resulting file looks as follows.

![files/images/example_plot_p0_demo.png](files/images/example_plot_p0_demo.png)

+++

## [Command line interface](cli.md)
This SVG can be digitized from the [command line interface](cli.md), which creates a {download}`CSV <./files/others/example_plot_p0_demo.csv>` file of the x and y data (here U and v). 

> The resolution can be specified by `--sampling-interval`. In this specifc case also indicate that the axes are `--skewed`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sampling of the bezier paths can be set by `--sampling-interval` which specifies the sampling interval in x units. In this specific case also indicate that the axes are `--skewed`.  
```
